{\rtf \li720 \fi-720 \sl240 \slmult1 \sa0 \uc0\u12298{}A Secure Sharding Protocol For Open Blockchains\uc0\u12299{}. \uc0\u35265{}\uc0\u26044{} 2018\uc0\u24180{}10\uc0\u26376{}21\uc0\u26085{}. https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2978389.\
\uc0\u12298{}A Survey of Attacks on Ethereum Smart Contracts (SoK) | SpringerLink\uc0\u12299{}. \uc0\u35265{}\uc0\u26044{} 2018\uc0\u24180{}10\uc0\u26376{}21\uc0\u26085{}. https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007%2F978-3-662-54455-6_8.\
Atzori, Marcella. \uc0\u12298{}Blockchain Technology and Decentralized Governance: Is the State Still Necessary?\uc0\u12299{} SSRN Scholarly Paper. Rochester, NY: Social Science Research Network, 2015\uc0\u24180{}12\uc0\u26376{}1\uc0\u26085{}. https://papers.ssrn.com/abstract=2709713.\
Back, Adam, Matt Corallo, Luke Dashjr, Mark Friedenbach, Gregory Maxwell, Andrew Miller, Andrew Poelstra, Jorge Tim\uc0\u243{}n\uc0\u21644{}Pieter Wuille. \uc0\u12298{}Enabling Blockchain Innovations with Pegged Sidechains\uc0\u12299{}, \uc0\u19981{}\uc0\u35814{}, 25.\
Benet, Juan. \uc0\u12298{}IPFS - Content Addressed, Versioned, P2P File System\uc0\u12299{}, \uc0\u19981{}\uc0\u35814{}, 11.\
\uc0\u12298{}Bitter to Better \uc0\u8212{} How to Make Bitcoin a Better Currency | SpringerLink\uc0\u12299{}. \uc0\u35265{}\uc0\u26044{} 2018\uc0\u24180{}10\uc0\u26376{}21\uc0\u26085{}. https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007%2F978-3-642-32946-3_29.\
\uc0\u12298{}Blockchain: Blueprint for a New Economy - Melanie Swan - Google Books\uc0\u12299{}. \uc0\u35265{}\uc0\u26044{} 2018\uc0\u24180{}10\uc0\u26376{}22\uc0\u26085{}. https://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=RHJmBgAAQBAJ&oi=fnd&pg=PR3&dq=blockchain&ots=XQuAC1XSf8&sig=MNEUwvj3kykUNVVNnU43GXgL6tE#v=onepage&q=blockchain&f=false.\
\uc0\u12298{}Blockchain Revolution: How the Technology Behind Bitcoin Is Changing Money ... - Don Tapscott, Alex Tapscott - Google Books\uc0\u12299{}. \uc0\u35265{}\uc0\u26044{} 2018\uc0\u24180{}10\uc0\u26376{}21\uc0\u26085{}. https://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=NqBiCgAAQBAJ&oi=fnd&pg=PT11&dq=blockchain&ots=sRxHxJ_9uv&sig=n68iAHg5XFWXtUXZw3rJuheTM1Y#v=onepage&q=blockchain&f=false.\
Cachin, Christian. \uc0\u12298{}Architecture of the Hyperledger Blockchain Fabric\uc0\u12299{}, \uc0\u19981{}\uc0\u35814{}, 4.\
Christidis, K., \uc0\u21644{}M. Devetsikiotis. \uc0\u12298{}Blockchains and Smart Contracts for the Internet of Things\uc0\u12299{}. {\i{}IEEE Access} 4 (2016\uc0\u24180{}): 2292\uc0\u8211{}2303. https://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2016.2566339.\
Conoscenti, M., A. Vetr\uc0\u242{}\uc0\u21644{}J. C. De Martin. \uc0\u12298{}Blockchain for the Internet of Things: A systematic literature review\uc0\u12299{}. \uc0\u25910{}\uc0\u20837{} {\i{}2016 IEEE/ACS 13th International Conference of Computer Systems and Applications (AICCSA)}, 1\uc0\u8211{}6, 2016. https://doi.org/10.1109/AICCSA.2016.7945805.\
Crosby, Michael. \uc0\u12298{}BlockChain Technology: Beyond Bitcoin\uc0\u12299{}, \uc0\u26399{} 2 (2016\uc0\u24180{}): 16.\
Dorri, A., S. S. Kanhere, R. Jurdak\uc0\u21644{}P. Gauravaram. \uc0\u12298{}Blockchain for IoT security and privacy: The case study of a smart home\uc0\u12299{}. \uc0\u25910{}\uc0\u20837{} {\i{}2017 IEEE International Conference on Pervasive Computing and Communications Workshops (PerCom Workshops)}, 618\uc0\u8211{}23, 2017. https://doi.org/10.1109/PERCOMW.2017.7917634.\
Eyal, Ittay, Adem Efe Gencer, Emin Gun Sirer\uc0\u21644{}Robbert van Renesse. \uc0\u12298{}Bitcoin-NG: A Scalable Blockchain Protocol\uc0\u12299{}, \uc0\u19981{}\uc0\u35814{}, 16.\
Gervais, Arthur, Ghassan O. Karame, Karl W\uc0\u252{}st, Vasileios Glykantzis, Hubert Ritzdorf\uc0\u21644{}Srdjan Capkun. \uc0\u12298{}On the Security and Performance of Proof of Work Blockchains\uc0\u12299{}. \uc0\u25910{}\uc0\u20837{} {\i{}Proceedings of the 2016 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security}, 3\uc0\u8211{}16. CCS \uc0\u8217{}16. New York, NY, USA: ACM, 2016. https://doi.org/10.1145/2976749.2978341.\
Guerra, Anna, Laura Fugazzola, Vincenzo Marotta, Massimo Cirillo, Stefania Rossi, Valentina Cirello, Irene Forno, Tania Moccia, Alfredo Budillon\uc0\u21644{}Mario Vitale. \uc0\u12298{}A high percentage of BRAFV600E alleles in papillary thyroid carcinoma predicts a poorer outcome\uc0\u12299{}. {\i{}The Journal of Clinical Endocrinology & Metabolism} 97, \uc0\u26399{} 7 (2012\uc0\u24180{}): 2333\uc0\u8211{}2340.\
\uc0\u12298{}High Percentage of BRAFV600E Alleles in Papillary Thyroid Carcinoma Predicts a Poorer Outcome | The Journal of Clinical Endocrinology & Metabolism | Oxford Academic\uc0\u12299{}. \uc0\u35265{}\uc0\u26044{} 2018\uc0\u24180{}10\uc0\u26376{}23\uc0\u26085{}. https://academic.oup.com/jcem/article/97/7/2333/2834163.\
\uc0\u12298{}High Percentage of BRAFV600E Alleles in Papillary Thyroid Carcinoma Predicts a Poorer Outcome | The Journal of Clinical Endocrinology & Metabolism | Oxford Academic\uc0\u12299{}. \uc0\u35265{}\uc0\u26044{} 2018\uc0\u24180{}10\uc0\u26376{}23\uc0\u26085{}. https://academic.oup.com/jcem/article/97/7/2333/2834163.\
\uc0\u12298{}High Percentage of BRAFV600E Alleles in Papillary Thyroid Carcinoma Predicts a Poorer Outcome | The Journal of Clinical Endocrinology & Metabolism | Oxford Academic\uc0\u12299{}. \uc0\u35265{}\uc0\u26044{} 2018\uc0\u24180{}10\uc0\u26376{}23\uc0\u26085{}. https://academic.oup.com/jcem/article/97/7/2333/2834163.\
Iansiti, Marco, \uc0\u21644{}Karim R Lakhani. \uc0\u12298{}The Truth About Blockchain\uc0\u12299{}, \uc0\u19981{}\uc0\u35814{}, 11.\
Kiayias, Aggelos, Alexander Russell, Bernardo David\uc0\u21644{}Roman Oliynykov. \uc0\u12298{}Ouroboros: A Provably Secure Proof-of-Stake Blockchain Protocol\uc0\u12299{}. \uc0\u25910{}\uc0\u20837{} {\i{}Advances in Cryptology \uc0\u8211{} CRYPTO 2017}, \uc0\u32534{}\uc0\u36753{} Jonathan Katz\uc0\u21644{}Hovav Shacham, 357\uc0\u8211{}88. Lecture Notes in Computer Science. Springer International Publishing, 2017.\
Kim, Henry M., \uc0\u21644{}Marek Laskowski. \uc0\u12298{}Toward an Ontology-Driven Blockchain Design for Supply-Chain Provenance\uc0\u12299{}. {\i{}Intelligent Systems in Accounting, Finance and Management} 25, \uc0\u26399{} 1 (2018\uc0\u24180{}1\uc0\u26376{}1\uc0\u26085{}): 18\uc0\u8211{}27. https://doi.org/10.1002/isaf.1424.\
Kiviat, Trevor I. \uc0\u12298{}Beyond Bitcoin: Issues in Regulating Blockchain Tranactions\uc0\u12299{}. {\i{}Duke Law Journal} 65 (2015\uc0\u24180{}2016\uc0\u26376{}): 569.\
Kokoris-Kogias, Eleftherios, Philipp Jovanovic, Linus Gasser, Nicolas Gailly, Ewa Syta\uc0\u21644{}Bryan Ford. \uc0\u12298{}OmniLedger: A Secure, Scale-Out, Decentralized Ledger via Sharding\uc0\u12299{}, 2017\uc0\u24180{}. http://eprint.iacr.org/2017/406.\
Korpela, Kari, Jukka Hallikas\uc0\u21644{}Tomi Dahlberg. \uc0\u12298{}Digital Supply Chain Transformation toward Blockchain Integration\uc0\u12299{}, 2017. https://doi.org/10.24251/HICSS.2017.506.\
Kroll, Joshua A, Ian C Davey\uc0\u21644{}Edward W Felten. \uc0\u12298{}The Economics of Bitcoin Mining or, Bitcoin in the Presence of Adversaries\uc0\u12299{}, \uc0\u19981{}\uc0\u35814{}, 21.\
Luu, Loi, Duc-Hiep Chu, Hrishi Olickel, Prateek Saxena\uc0\u21644{}Aquinas Hobor. \uc0\u12298{}Making Smart Contracts Smarter\uc0\u12299{}. \uc0\u25910{}\uc0\u20837{} {\i{}Proceedings of the 2016 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security}, 254\uc0\u8211{}269. CCS \uc0\u8217{}16. New York, NY, USA: ACM, 2016. https://doi.org/10.1145/2976749.2978309.\
Miers, I., C. Garman, M. Green\uc0\u21644{}A. D. Rubin. \uc0\u12298{}Zerocoin: Anonymous Distributed E-Cash from Bitcoin\uc0\u12299{}. \uc0\u25910{}\uc0\u20837{} {\i{}2013 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy}, 397\uc0\u8211{}411, 2013. https://doi.org/10.1109/SP.2013.34.\
Nakamoto, Satoshi. \uc0\u12298{}Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System\uc0\u12299{}, \uc0\u19981{}\uc0\u35814{}, 9.\
Olleros, F. Xavier, \uc0\u21644{}Majlinda Zhegu. {\i{}Research Handbook on Digital Transformations}. Edward Elgar Publishing, 2016.\
\uc0\u12298{}On Scaling Decentralized Blockchains | SpringerLink\uc0\u12299{}. \uc0\u35265{}\uc0\u26044{} 2018\uc0\u24180{}10\uc0\u26376{}21\uc0\u26085{}. https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-662-53357-4_8.\
Pass, Rafael, Lior Seeman\uc0\u21644{}Abhi Shelat. \uc0\u12298{}Analysis of the Blockchain Protocol in Asynchronous Networks\uc0\u12299{}. \uc0\u25910{}\uc0\u20837{} {\i{}Advances in Cryptology \uc0\u8211{} EUROCRYPT 2017}, \uc0\u32534{}\uc0\u36753{} Jean-S\uc0\u233{}bastien Coron\uc0\u21644{}Jesper Buus Nielsen, 643\uc0\u8211{}73. Lecture Notes in Computer Science. Springer International Publishing, 2017.\
Reid, Fergal, \uc0\u21644{}Martin Harrigan. \uc0\u12298{}An Analysis of Anonymity in the Bitcoin System\uc0\u12299{}. \uc0\u25910{}\uc0\u20837{} {\i{}Security and Privacy in Social Networks}, \uc0\u32534{}\uc0\u36753{} Yaniv Altshuler, Yuval Elovici, Armin B. Cremers, Nadav Aharony\uc0\u21644{}Alex Pentland, 197\uc0\u8211{}223. New York, NY: Springer New York, 2013. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-1-4614-4139-7_10.\
Ron, Dorit, \uc0\u21644{}Adi Shamir. \uc0\u12298{}Quantitative Analysis of the Full Bitcoin Transaction Graph\uc0\u12299{}. \uc0\u25910{}\uc0\u20837{} {\i{}Financial Cryptography and Data Security}, \uc0\u32534{}\uc0\u36753{} Ahmad-Reza Sadeghi, 6\uc0\u8211{}24. Lecture Notes in Computer Science. Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 2013.\
Sasson, E. B., A. Chiesa, C. Garman, M. Green, I. Miers, E. Tromer\uc0\u21644{}M. Virza. \uc0\u12298{}Zerocash: Decentralized Anonymous Payments from Bitcoin\uc0\u12299{}. \uc0\u25910{}\uc0\u20837{} {\i{}2014 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP)}, 459\uc0\u8211{}74, 2014. https://doi.org/10.1109/SP.2014.36.\
Swan, Melanie. {\i{}Blockchain: Blueprint for a New Economy}. O\uc0\u8217{}Reilly Media, Inc., 2015.\
Tapscott, Don, \uc0\u21644{}Alex Tapscott. {\i{}Blockchain Revolution: How the Technology Behind Bitcoin Is Changing Money, Business, and the World}. Penguin, 2016.\
\uc0\u8212{}\uc0\u8212{}\uc0\u8212{}. {\i{}Blockchain Revolution: How the Technology Behind Bitcoin Is Changing Money, Business, and the World}. Penguin, 2016.\
Tschorsch, F., \uc0\u21644{}B. Scheuermann. \uc0\u12298{}Bitcoin and Beyond: A Technical Survey on Decentralized Digital Currencies\uc0\u12299{}. {\i{}IEEE Communications Surveys Tutorials} 18, \uc0\u26399{} 3 (2016\uc0\u24180{}thirdquarter\uc0\u26376{}): 2084\uc0\u8211{}2123. https://doi.org/10.1109/COMST.2016.2535718.\
Underwood, Sarah. \uc0\u12298{}Blockchain Beyond Bitcoin\uc0\u12299{}. {\i{}Commun. ACM} 59, \uc0\u26399{} 11 (2016\uc0\u24180{}10\uc0\u26376{}): 15\uc0\u8211{}17. https://doi.org/10.1145/2994581.\
Vigna, Paul, \uc0\u21644{}Michael J. Casey. {\i{}The Age of Cryptocurrency: How Bitcoin and the Blockchain Are Challenging the Global Economic Order}. Macmillan, 2016.\
Vukoli\uc0\u263{}, Marko. \uc0\u12298{}The Quest for Scalable Blockchain Fabric: Proof-of-Work vs. BFT Replication\uc0\u12299{}. \uc0\u25910{}\uc0\u20837{} {\i{}Open Problems in Network Security}, \uc0\u32534{}\uc0\u36753{} Jan Camenisch\uc0\u21644{}Do\uc0\u287{}an Kesdo\uc0\u287{}an, 112\uc0\u8211{}25. Lecture Notes in Computer Science. Springer International Publishing, 2016.\
Wood, Dr Gavin. \uc0\u12298{}ETHEREUM: A SECURE DECENTRALISED GENERALISED TRANSACTION LEDGER\uc0\u12299{}, \uc0\u19981{}\uc0\u35814{}, 32.\
\uc0\u8212{}\uc0\u8212{}\uc0\u8212{}. \uc0\u12298{}POLKADOT: VISION FOR A HETEROGENEOUS MULTI-CHAIN FRAMEWORK\uc0\u12299{}, \uc0\u19981{}\uc0\u35814{}, 21.\
\uc0\u8212{}\uc0\u8212{}\uc0\u8212{}. \uc0\u12298{}POLKADOT: VISION FOR A HETEROGENEOUS MULTI-CHAIN FRAMEWORK\uc0\u12299{}, \uc0\u19981{}\uc0\u35814{}, 21.\
Wright, Aaron, \uc0\u21644{}Primavera De Filippi. \uc0\u12298{}Decentralized Blockchain Technology and the Rise of Lex Cryptographia\uc0\u12299{}. SSRN Scholarly Paper. Rochester, NY: Social Science Research Network, 2015\uc0\u24180{}3\uc0\u26376{}10\uc0\u26085{}. https://papers.ssrn.com/abstract=2580664.\
Xu, X., C. Pautasso, L. Zhu, V. Gramoli, A. Ponomarev, A. B. Tran\uc0\u21644{}S. Chen. \uc0\u12298{}The Blockchain as a Software Connector\uc0\u12299{}. \uc0\u25910{}\uc0\u20837{} {\i{}2016 13th Working IEEE/IFIP Conference on Software Architecture (WICSA)}, 182\uc0\u8211{}91, 2016. https://doi.org/10.1109/WICSA.2016.21.\
Yli-Huumo, Jesse, Deokyoon Ko, Sujin Choi, Sooyong Park\uc0\u21644{}Kari Smolander. \uc0\u12298{}Where Is Current Research on Blockchain Technology?\uc0\u8212{}A Systematic Review\uc0\u12299{}. {\i{}PLOS ONE} 11, \uc0\u26399{} 10 (2016\uc0\u24180{}10\uc0\u26376{}3\uc0\u26085{}): e0163477. https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0163477.\
Yue, Xiao, Huiju Wang, Dawei Jin, Mingqiang Li\uc0\u21644{}Wei Jiang. \uc0\u12298{}Healthcare Data Gateways: Found Healthcare Intelligence on Blockchain with Novel Privacy Risk Control\uc0\u12299{}. {\i{}Journal of Medical Systems} 40, \uc0\u26399{} 10 (2016\uc0\u24180{}8\uc0\u26376{}26\uc0\u26085{}): 218. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10916-016-0574-6.\
Zyskind, G., O. Nathan\uc0\u21644{}A. \uc0\u8217{} Pentland. \uc0\u12298{}Decentralizing Privacy: Using Blockchain to Protect Personal Data\uc0\u12299{}. \uc0\u25910{}\uc0\u20837{} {\i{}2015 IEEE Security and Privacy Workshops}, 180\uc0\u8211{}84, 2015. https://doi.org/10.1109/SPW.2015.27.\
}